What was the toaster project?What did Thomas Thwaites attempt to do? Was he successful and what is the significance of this example in the context of complexity and development?                                                                                                                                                  A british design student tried to make an electric toaster by finding raw materials and turning them into parts. He was not successful. He used this example to show that even something cheap and common have different technologies and complicated parts of technology. It is a whole system.
According to Barder, how successful have economic models been at describing and predicting growth over the past 50 years?  How did he use the Harrod-Domar model, the Solow model, the Washington consensus and the Ajoakuta Steel works to illustrate his point (reference at least two of the above).                           The Harrod-Domar model explained the simple positive correlation between output and capital but it didn't explain the problems of developing countries under the constraining issue of capital even if they have enough labor. The Solow model focused on the technical changes in the past 50 years while combining with labor and captial increases. So it was a more successful model then the Harrod-Domar model.
Who was Steve Jones? What did he do at uni-lever? Was he successful?  Specifically what did he do in order to make an evolutionary jump forward?  How significant were his results?                             Steve Jones is a evolutionary biologist who worked to make soap powder at first. He designed a better nozzle at uni-lever and he was very successful. He tested ten variants of nozzles and chose the best one and he repeated the process to produce 45 generations of nozzles. His new nozzles are more effecient. It brought startling game-changing jumps to new solutions.
Who was Haile Sellasie?  What is the significance of Kapuscinski’s book, The Emporer?  According to Barder, how did Ethiopia exemplify the suppression of emergent systemic change?  How do you think Sen would have described this suppression? Do you agree?                                                                        Haile Sellasie was the last emperor of the great Feudal dynasty of Ethiopia.
