He discovered that the students at the Karolinska Institute don’t know a lot about child mortality in the world. Because they got only 1.8 right answer out of 5 possible, which is very different form his preconceived ideas that maybe the students know everything. Therefore, Hans Rosling also realized the importance of teaching them international health.   
The improvement of child survival and health took place in Asia that preceded economic growth. This type of change is significant because the rise of child survival rate represents the rise of income of people in those countries.  
The relationship between child mortality and GDP per capita is the higher GDP per capita, the lower child mortality.  
The income distribution is not that divided in Asia. A lot of people got of poverty and most people’s income is in the middle range.  
Using very spatial and temporal resolutions, Hans Rosling showed the connection between child survival and economic development. He compared information in different time and country, which perfectly proved his viewpoints. This changed his view about child health all around the world.  
In my opinion, Hans Rosling’s work with the Gapminder project showed the huge change in Asia and other parts of the world in child mortality. The information are easy to understand because it used graph and statistic to show good comparison between different countries in different time. Using data science methods to analyze human development is very convenient and based on these analysis, scientists can find some laws and theories, which facilitates the research on human developments.  
